.TH etch 8 "October 2009"

.SH NAME

.B etch
\- Configuration management for Unix systems

.SH SYNOPSIS

.B etch
.RB [ --generate-all ]
.RB [ --dry-run | \-n ]
.RB [ --damp-run ]
.RB [ --interactive ]
.RB [ --full-file ]
.RB [ --filename-only ]
.RB [ --disable-force ]
.RB [ --lock-force ]
.RB [ --debug ]
.RB [ --local
.IR DIR ]
.RB [ --server
.IR SERVER ]
.RB [ --tag
.IR TAG ]
.RB [ --configdir
.IR CONFIGDIR ]
.RB [ --vardir
.IR VARDIR ]
.RB [ --test-base
.IR TESTDIR ]
.RB [ --key
.IR PRIVATE_KEY ]
.RB [ --version ]
.RB [ --help | \-h ]
.RI [ "file ..." ]

.SH DESCRIPTION

Etch is a tool for managing the configuration of Unix systems. Etch can manage
text or binary files, links and directories. The contents of files can be
supplied from static files or generated on the fly by scripts or templates.
Permissions and ownership as well as any pre or post commands to run when
updating the file are configured in simple XML files.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --generate-all
Request that the server generate and send over all available configuration.
Can be used instead of specifying specific files to request.
.TP
.B --dry-run | \-n
.B etch
will not make any changes to the system.  Contents of generated config
files are displayed instead of being written to disk.
.TP
.B --damp-run
Perform an almost dry run, except that 'setup' entries for files are run.
Normally all setup/pre/post entries are ignored for a dry run.  However, files
with setup entries will generally fail to build properly if the setup entry
hasn't been run.  This allows you to preview the full and correct
configuration while making minimal changes to the system.
.TP
.B --interactive
Causes
.B etch
to pause before making each change and prompt the user for
confirmation.
.TP
.B --full-file
Normally
.B etch
will print a diff to show what changes it will make to a file. This will cause
.B etch
to display the full new file contents instead.  Useful if the diff is hard to
read for a particular file.
.TP
.B --filename-only
Normally
.B etch
will print a diff to show what changes it will make to a file. This will cause
etch to display only the name of file to be changed.  Useful on the initial
run during your system build process or other times when you want less output.
.TP
.B --disable-force
Ignore the disable_etch file.  Use with caution.  Typically used with
--interactive or --dry-run to evaluate what would happen if etch were
re-enabled.
.TP
.B --lock-force
.B Etch
does per-file internal locking as it runs to prevent problems with
simultaneous instances of the
.B etch
client stepping on each other.
.B Etch
automatically cleans up lockfiles over two hours old on the assumption that
any lockfiles that old were left behind by a previous instance that failed for
some (hopefully transient) reason. In a large environment you don't want to
have to run around manually cleaning up lockfiles every time a full disk or
unavailable package server or other transient failure causes
.B etch
to fail
temporarily. This option forces the removal of any existing lockfiles no
matter how old. Useful if a buggy configuration or local environmental issue
caused
.B etch
to abort and you want to immediately retry.
.TP
.BI --local " DIR"
Read configuration from a local directory rather than requesting it from
a server.
.TP
.BI --server " SERVER"
Point
.B etch
to an alternate server, specified in the form of a URL.
.TP
.BI --tag " TAG"
Request a specific repository tag from the server.  Tags are directory paths
relative to /etc/etchserver by default.  Thus examples might be
.I trunk
for /etc/etchserver/trunk, or
.I branches/mytestbranch
for /etc/etchserver/branches/mytestbranch.
.TP
.BI --key " PRIVATE_KEY"
Use an alternate SSH private key file for signing messages that are sent to
the server.
.TP
.BI --configdir " CONFIGDIR"
Use an alternate configuration directory instead of /etc.  This is the
location of etch.conf and other configuration files.  See FILES.
.TP
.BI --vardir " VARDIR"
Use an alternate local working directory instead of /var/etch.  See FILES.
.TP
.BI --test-root " TESTDIR"
Places the config and var directories relative to a test root directory.
Generally only used for allowing the etch test suite to be run as a non-root
user.
.TP
.B --debug
Print lots of messages about what etch is doing.
.TP
.B --version
Show the etch client version and exit.
.TP
.B --help | \-h
Display the etch usage message and exit.

.SH FILES

.TP
.B /etc/etch.conf
Optional configuration file for the etch client.  The distribution ships with
an example file showing the available settings and their defaults.  The file
syntax consists of "name = value" parameters.  Lines starting with '#' and
empty lines are interpreted as comments.
.IP
.B server =
The URL for connecting to the server.  http:// and https:// are supported.
.IP
.B path =
PATH environment etch should use when executing external commands.
.IP
.B local =
Etch can read configuration from a local directory rather than from a server.
If set this will override the server setting.
.IP
.B key =
SSH host key to use for authentication rather than standard system key.
.IP
.B detailed_results =
Etch can send detailed results back to the server for viewing in the web UI
and/or to a local log file.  Value should be SERVER or the full path to a log
file.  Setting may be specified multiple times to send logs to multiple
destinations.
.TP
.B /etc/etch/ca.pem
SSL certificate(s) needed to verify the
.B etch
server's identity. If
.B etch
is using a server with an https:// URL and if this file exists then
.B etch
will not proceed if the server's SSL certificate can't be verified against the
certs in this file.
.TP
.B /var/etch/disable_etch
If this file is present
.B etch
will do nothing other than send a message to the
.B etch
server that it is disabled. Any text in this file will be included in
that message to the server and displayed locally. If you are disabling
.B etch
always put a note in this file indicating who you are, today's date, and why
you are disabling
.B etch
so that fellow administrators won't have to guess later why
.B etch
was disabled. Re-enabling
.B etch
after it has been disabled for a long
time can be time-consuming, as the person doing so must review any potential
changes that have been queued up and ensure that they won't interfere with the
current usage of the system. As such be thoughtful about whether disabling
.B etch
is necessary, and re-enable it as soon as possible.
.TP
.B /var/etch/history
A revision history of each
.B etch
managed file, stored using the RCS revision control system.
.TP
.B /var/etch/locks
Directory used by the
.B etch
internal locking mechanism.  See the --lock-force option for more details.
.TP
.B /var/etch/orig
A backup of the original contents of each
.B etch
managed file as it was before etch first touched it.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS

See the --debug option and the server logs.

.SH AUTHOR

.B Etch
is designed and maintained by Jason Heiss
